rec: ZONEMD validation for Zone to Cache function (#11189)
PowerDNS/pdns: pdns/recursordist/docs/lua-config/ztc.rst

     zoneToCache(".", "url", "https://www.internic.net/domain/root.zone", { refreshPeriod = 0 })

DNSSEC and ZONEMD validation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Starting with version 4.7.0, the Recursor will do validation of the zone retrieved.
Validation consists of two parts: ``DNSSEC`` and ``ZONEMD``.
``ZONEMD`` is described in :rfc:`8976`.

For the ``DNSSEC`` part, if the global :ref:`setting-dnssec` setting is not ``off`` or ``process-no-validate`` and the `DS` record from the parent zone or trust anchor indicates the zone is ``DNSSEC`` signed, the recursor will validate the ``DNSKEY`` records of the zone.
If a ``ZONEMD`` record is present, it will also validate the ``ZONEMD`` record.
If no ``ZONEMD`` is present, the ``NSEC`` or ``NSEC3`` denial of the ``ZONEMD`` record will be validated.
Note that this is not a full validation of all signatures.

> The signatures of the remaining records will be verified on-demand once the records are inserted into the cache.

Reviewer: "inserted into", or "retrieved from and found to be in Indeterminate state"?

Author: A bit unclear indeed, I'll reformulate.

> For the ``ZONEMD`` part, if the zone has a ``ZONEMD`` record, the digest of the zone wil be verified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the ``ZONEMD`` part, if the zone has a ``ZONEMD`` record, the digest of the zone will be verified.
```

> For both parts failure of validation will prevent the downloaded zone contents to be inserted into the cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For both parts failure of validation will prevent the downloaded zone contents from being inserted into the cache.
```

Absence of ``DNSSEC`` records is not considered a failure if the parent zone or negative trust anchor indicate the zone is ``Insecure``.

> Absence ``ZONEMD`` records is not considered a failure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Absence of ``ZONEMD`` records is not considered a failure.
```

> Absence of ``ZONEMD`` records is not considered a failure.

Reviewer: except when DNSSEC disagrees, right?

Author: Yes, I'll make it more clear.

The source IP address to use when transferring using the ``axfr`` or ``url`` methods.
When unset, :ref:`setting-query-local-address` is used.

zonemd
~~~~~~

.. versionadded:: 4.7.0

> A string. possible values: ``ignore``: ignore ZONEMD records, ``validate``: validate ``ZONEMD`` if present, ``require``: require valid ``ZONEMD`` record to be present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A string, possible values: ``ignore``: ignore ZONEMD records, ``validate``: validate ``ZONEMD`` if present, ``require``: require valid ``ZONEMD`` record to be present.
```
